SO basically I made this as my final project for CS50P in early 2025, this time I will add another layer of security by encrypting the password data inside the txt file.
How does it work?
So basically the program asks a masterpassword, it will translate the masterpassword into AES 32byte code and then into Fernet key
The Fernet key will be used to encrypt/decrypt everything, very secure indeed!:3
Everything else is the same old ProjectPassPaulito

Pass Paulito Manager

Pass Paulito Manager is a simple but secure command-line password manager built with Python.
It stores your passwords in an encrypted local database (Database.txt) and decrypts them only when you enter your Master Password.

Made by Paul Scott Nguyen

Features:

Master password–based encryption

Local encrypted database (Database.txt)

Manual or auto password creation

View passwords by ID or grouped by website

Update or delete saved passwords

All passwords encrypted using the Fernet symmetric encryption system

How It Works
1. Master Password → Encryption Key

When you start the program, it asks for your Master Password.
That password isn’t stored anywhere — instead, it’s transformed into a cryptographic key through this process:

key = hashlib.sha256(master_password.encode()).digest()
fernet_key = base64.urlsafe_b64encode(key)
fernet = Fernet(fernet_key)

Explanation:

hashlib.sha256() converts your password into a 32-byte (256-bit) hash.

The result is encoded with base64.urlsafe_b64encode(), which turns it into a Fernet-compatible key.

Fernet uses this key to encrypt and decrypt all your stored passwords.

So typing the same master password always gives you the same key — allowing you to decrypt your saved data.

2. Database Setup

When the program runs for the first time, it checks for Database.txt.
If it doesn’t exist, it automatically creates one with these columns:

ID | Website | Username | Password

Passwords are encrypted before being stored.

3. Main Menu Options

After entering your master password, you’ll see:

1. To add Password manually
2. To add Password automatically
3. To see all passwords
4. To delete a password
5. To update a password
6. To exit

Option 1: Add Password Manually

You enter:

Website

Username

Password

Then the password is encrypted and saved to Database.txt with an incrementing ID number.

Option 2: Add Password Automatically

If you don’t want to make a password yourself, this option will generate one for you.

It asks for a length (e.g., 16), then uses:

secrets.choice(string.ascii_letters + string.digits + string.punctuation)

to build a strong random password.

The password is printed for you to copy and is stored encrypted in the database.

Option 3: View Passwords

You can view:

Passwords by ID

Passwords grouped by website

All passwords are decrypted on the fly using your Fernet key.
They’re never stored or printed in plaintext unless you’re viewing them through this program.

Option 4: Delete a Password

You enter the website and username.
If a match is found, the program asks for confirmation before deleting the entry from the file.

IDs are then automatically re-numbered so the database stays clean.

Option 5: Update a Password

You choose the website and username, enter a new password, and the program replaces the old encrypted value with a freshly encrypted one.

Option 6: Exit

Encryption Details

Fernet encryption is provided by the cryptography library and is symmetric — meaning the same key is used to both encrypt and decrypt data.

Your passwords are converted like this:

encrypted = fernet.encrypt(password.encode()).decode()
decrypted = fernet.decrypt(encrypted.encode()).decode()

So without the exact same master password, the data in Database.txt is unreadable garbage.

Example of an encrypted password:

gAAAAABmXyP6lX0iZsZrjS6k1tKp2ZLRkF3Qw1Tk1JybH6vM7f3YB2Y...